This video is the exercise corresponding to the previous video about creating gal scenes and finding
points on galleons.
So if you haven't gone through the previous video make sure you go through that before trying to work
through this exercise.
So the goal of this exercise is basically just to produce an image that looks something like this.
So what are we actually looking here.
Well this is the time axis here this is the same access that you saw in these kinds of graphs here.
So it's the same time axis.
However in this graph we have the function value Y on the y axis but here the function value is actually
the color.
So if you pick one row here then this is all zeros for this blue color and then as we get two more yellowish
colors the values get larger up to 1 and then they get smaller back down to zero again.
Or at least you know very very close to zero.
I did mention this in the previous video but in fact these value the function never actually touches
zero.
It just gets really really really close to zero always positive anyway so each row in this image corresponds
to a galleon and the color corresponds to the height or the amplitude of the gaussian and then the y
axis here actually shows this parameter that's full with the half maximum parameter.
So what you see it looks like this kind of cone that's opening up and that's actually just a lot of
different galleons.
I think I used a hundred different galleons here and each galaxy and each row in this image has its
own value of H.
So I hope that makes sense and what you should do now is pause the video switch to Python and see if
you can get an image that looks something like this.
Don't worry about the color scaling but just worry about the general features of this image.
And now it's my turn to switch to Python and show you my solution.
So here we have the code from the previous video and I'm assuming that you have already run all of this
code before working on this exercise.
So let's see what we want to do is specify a matrix and the size of this matrix is going to be the number
of time points by the number of H values.
So let's see I'll specify n to be 100 so I'm going to use N hundred one hundred different values of
H going from zero to 1.
So now here is gonna be the output matrix.
I call this matrix G so I'm going to initialize this to be zeros and it's going to be n by the length
of T.
Okay.
So I ran that cell just to make sure I didn't you know sometimes I make little mistakes here when you
have so many parentheses all in one line of code.
Okay so now I'm going to loop over for i in range n.
And what do we want to do we want to set each row so the AI comma all Rho to be equal to the Galaxy
and formula.
So E to the NUM spider.
E XP e to the minus four times the natural log log of two times times time squared.
And then that's divided by h squared.
Okay.
Now I can already tell you that this is not yet correct because this is just pulling h from the previous
video and it's the same value for all of these Gaussian all the rows in this image.
However I'm going to fix that in a moment.
I want to make sure that I'm getting the right code so I'm going to draw this actually as a color mesh
so p color mesh and let's just say like this and P L T dot show.
Okay so we get an image we don't get any errors.
And what you see here is every row is a galaxy in.
And well this is just repeats it's 100 repeats of the identical Gaussian not super interesting.
So there's a couple of things that we need to change here.
Well we need to fix H.
So I'm gonna specify that H equals and now there's many correct ways that you could have done this the
way that I'm going to do this is by setting h to be the looping index here plus 1 divided by n.
Now why am I setting this to be I plus 1 and why not just I.
Let's see what happens if I set h to be equal to I divided by n.
Well we get an error here it says divide by zero and let's think about what happens and the very first
iteration.
So at the first iteration of this loop I is equal to zero.
And so then we have h is equal to while zero divided by n which is still zero.
And then here we are actually dividing by we have this stuff which is fine dividing by zero squared.
So we're not allowed to divide by zero.
So that's why I'm specifying this to be I plus 1 divided by n.
So there you go.
That gives us our Gaussian which is getting wider with increases in this parameter here.
So this part is good.
I'm happy with this part.
However when we look here at this graph we look at the axes and these are not correct.
Well I mean they are correct.
They go in indices but I would like this to be more meaningful and I would like this to be in the actual
time vector here.
So the y axis.
Sorry I meant the x axis here values are going to be t.
And then what should the x axis values be here.
Well you know we can set it to B H but that's also not exactly right.
And in fact python is giving us an error here.
So in fact what I want to do is save the value of the full with that half maximum for every iteration
in this loop.
So I want to end up with a vector of H is not just a single H parameter.
So that's the way that I'm going to solve this.
There's other ways that you can also get this to work but I'm going to do this by creating a vector
H.
Let's say num pi zeros.
And this is also going to be n elements long and then the idea is that I set the ISF element in H and
then I also have the corrected here.
Groups like this.
So now the ISF element in H.
So where h is a vector and not just a scalar not just a single number.
And that is set to the full with the half maximum.
And then we get this plot.
Now this is correct and I'm going to add a few more niceties here.
So the X label will set that to B T and then we'll set the Y label to B H.
All right.
I think this looks really nice.
I'm very happy with this.
So in the previous video and in this video you learned about the formula for computing a galaxy.
And just as a quick reminder there are several different expressions of the gaussian but they all generally
look like e to the minus something squared over something squared.
And importantly you also learn how to find a particular point on a function using a little bit of algebra.
And importantly the interesting and important property that the natural exponential and the natural
logarithm are inverse is of each other.
And yet you also saw how to do all this cool stuff in Python.